Welcome to the Netrek Wiki, please sign in and create an account.

Accounts require confirmation before any editing.  Anonymous users are not permitted to edit; they must be logged in and confirmed.  We're doing this because we are a small community and need to protect ourselves from automated attacks.  '''Please use a valid e-mail address during registration.'''  Non-confirmed accounts will not be permitted to edit wiki content.  

Content should remain on-topic.

Consult the [http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Contents User's Guide] for information on using the Wiki software.

=New Directions=
* [[MarketIdeas|Selling the Game]]
* [[ClientIdeas|Client Ideas]]
* [[ServerIdeas|Server Ideas]]
* [[MetaserverIdeas|Metaserver Ideas]]
* [[Training Mode]]
* [[FreqOffClevSugg|Frequently Offered Clever Suggestions (FOCS)]] (extremely dated)
* [[SiteBuilding|Updating the www.netrek.org website]]. 
** [[NexusHacking]]
** [[SpoogeFile]]

=Client=
The client is the program that players use to find a game and play it.
* [[MetaPoller|Metaserver Poller]]
* [[ClientIdeas|Ideas]]
* [[SourceControl|Source Control]]
* [[Building]]
* [[ClientInstallDebian|Debian GNU/Linux Installation]]
* [[MacClientDevNotes|Various notes about the MacTrek client]]
* [[MacClientKeyMap|Keymap for the MacTrek client]]
* [[TestConfigurations|Test Configurations]]

=Server=
The server is the program that all players in a game use, via the internet.
* [[ServicesList#Game_Servers|List]]
* [[ServerIdeas|Ideas]]
* [[SourceControl|Source Control]]
* [[Building]]
* [[ServerVanilla]] the common server
* [[CodingStyle|Coding Style]]
* [[OpenWrt|Server on an OpenWrt Router]]
* [[TestConfigurations|Test Configurations]]

= Metaserver =
The metaserver is a small program running on the internet that keeps a list of active games.  There are three or four metaservers, in case one fails.  The servers keep metaservers informed, in a process called ''soliciting''.  The client program asks for the list when it starts, in a process called ''querying''.
* [[ServicesList#Metaservers|List]]
* [[MetaserverIdeas|Ideas]]
* [[SourceControl|Source Control]]
* [[ServerSolicitChecklist|Server Solicit Checklist]]

=Administrative= 
* [[Newbie Mode|How to run a newbie server]]
* [[ServicesList|Services List]]
* [[Development Tools]]
* [[NexusListingPolicies|Policies for listing clients on www.netrek.org]]

=History= 
* [[History]]
* [[History/Servers|Servers]]
* [[History/Timeline|Timeline]]
* [[History/Ancestors|Ancestors]]

=Clue Games=
* [[Clue_Game]]

=Gameplay=
* [[Gameplay/Strategy and Tactics|Strategy and Tactics]]
* [[Gameplay/CHEAT CODES|CHEAT CODES]]

=Language Translations=
* [[InfrastructureTranslation|Infrastructure Internationalization Efforts]]
* [[WikiTranslation|Wiki Internationalization Efforts]]

= Mediawiki Getting started =
* [http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Configuration_settings Configuration settings list]
* [http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:FAQ MediaWiki FAQ]
* [https://lists.wikimedia.org/mailman/listinfo/mediawiki-announce MediaWiki release mailing list]