=Client: Netrek XP 2010= 
* actively developed,
* for Microsoft Windows,
* releases on http://www.netrek.org/,
* maintainer is Bill Balcerski aka [[User:Modemhero|Modemhero]],
* in [http://netrek.cvs.sourceforge.net/netrek/client/netrekxp/ SourceForge CVS], checkout with:
 cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@netrek.cvs.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/netrek co netrekxp

=Client: MacTrek (upstream)= 
* last release 2007,
* for Mac OS X 10.4,
* in [http://mactrek.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/mactrek/ SourceForge subversion] 
* releases on [http://mactrek.sourceforge.net/ SourceForge],
* releases on [http://www.apple.com/downloads/macosx/games/action_adventure/mactrek.html apple.com],
* mirrored to http://www.netrek.org/,
* Author &amp; maintainer is Chris Lukassen (Narcis)

=Client: OSXTrek (10.5/Intel Only)=
* actively maintained
* for Mac OS X 10.5, Intel
* in [https://code.launchpad.net/mactrek Launchpad],
* releases on [https://launchpad.net/mactrek/1.4 Launchpad],
* Maintainer is Bob Tanner (Basic)

=Client: Gytha=
* actively developed,
* for Microsoft Windows, Linux, Mac OS X, or anything that will run Pygame applications,
* in darcs, [http://james.tooraweenah.com/darcs/netrek-client-pygame/ repository] [http://james.tooraweenah.com/cgi-bin/darcsweb.cgi?r=netrek-client-pygame;a=summary browse],
* releases on http://quozl.us.netrek.org/gytha/
* maintainer is [[User:Quozl|Quozl]],
* 90% functional, is missing little.

=Client: COW=
* actively developed,
* for Linux, Mac OS X, or anything that will run X11 applications,
* in darcs, [http://james.tooraweenah.com/darcs/netrek-client-cow/ repository] or [http://james.tooraweenah.com/cgi-bin/darcsweb.cgi?r=netrek-client-cow;a=summary browse],
* releases on http://quozl.us.netrek.org/netrek/ ,
* maintainer is [[User:Quozl|Quozl]],
* 100% functional,
* packaging team uses [https://launchpad.net/netrek-client-cow Launchpad].

=Client: Netrek XP Mod= 
* no longer developed,
* for Microsoft Windows,
* not in a version control system,
* Stas' final (4.4.0.4) source zipfile at [http://netrek.keyos.org/netrekxpsrc-4.4.0.4.zip Stas' page] and on [http://www.netrek.org www.netrek.org]
* Stas has retired as maintainer.

=Client: BRMH= 
* semi-actively developed
* for Linux, Mac OS X, or anything that will run X11 applications,
* feature-lite, 
* not in a version control system,
* releases on SourceForge,
* mirrored on [http://www.netrek.org www.netrek.org],
* latest is 2000-03-21, Karthik did an OS X build 2006-12 
* maintainer is Karthik.

=Client: Paradise 2000=
* no longer developed,
* for Linux,
* closed source,
* not in a version control system,
* is expired as of 2008, use the -o option to make it work,
* was released at [http://www.speakeasy.net/~xyzzy/netrek/ xyzzy's page]
* maintainer is Trent Piepho (xyzzy).

=Client: Paradise= 
* semi-actively developed,
* for Linux and other UNIX based OSes such as Solaris, BSD,
* in [http://sourceforge.net/projects/paradise/ SourceForge CVS ] 
* on www? for Ted Turner 1.3.1 (Paradise client 3)
* [http://ftp.netrek.org/pub/netrek/paradise/client/client-2.4p1B.tar.gz paradise client 2.4p1B] 

=Clients: Not Active= 
* several inactive projects for netrek client rewrites: 
** Netrek GL [http://sourceforge.net/projects/netrekgl/ netrekgl] latest mod 2000-10-11 
** Netrek 3D [http://sourceforge.net/projects/netrek3d/ netrek3d] latest mod 2001-05-31 
** Spacetrek 3D [http://sourceforge.net/projects/spacetrek/ spacetrek] latest mod 2002-01-27 
** Netrek NG [http://sourceforge.net/projects/netrekng/ netrekng] latest mod 2006-01-18 
* there's also a probably different Netrek TNG in Java at [http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/%7Ematso/nttng/download.html http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/~matso/nttng/download.html] died out around 1999. [http://wiki.us.netrek.org/netrek-dev/BR BR] Says it is in CVS on [ftp://ftp.netrek.org ftp.netrek.org]; is it still?
* Netrek Unlimited,: Netrek Unlimited was a new (Apr 2007) project to do a client in C# and .NET, source is in Subversion at svn://redhorizon.info. read-only access using the anonymous login, no password, Maintainer is ChronosWS/Cliff//
* Netrek XP 2006 client renamed to Netrek XP 2009 as of April 2008
** Source zipfiles are on [http://www.netrek.org www.netrek.org] (through v 1.2, 2007-03-05)
* Netrek XP 2009 client renamed to Netrek XP 2010 as of July 2009
** Source zipfiles are on [http://www.netrek.org www.netrek.org]


= Server: Vanilla = 

* [http://vanilla.netrek.org/ web site]
* actively developed,
* for Linux, or other POSIX operating systems,
* in darcs, [http://www.netrek.org/repos/netrek-server master repository], [http://james.tooraweenah.com/darcs/netrek-server main developer's repository], [http://james.tooraweenah.com/cgi-bin/darcsweb.cgi?r=netrek-server;a=summary browse]

= Metaserver =

* actively developed,
* for Linux, or other POSIX operating systems,
* in darcs, [http://www.netrek.org/repos/netrek-metaserver master repository], [http://james.tooraweenah.com/cgi-bin/darcsweb.cgi?r=netrek-metaserver;a=summary browse]

=Misc= 

* Sourceforge also has some bits of old code for Netrek1999/Netrek2000 and RES-RSA, which are also [http://www.netrek.org/files/archive here] 
* www also has tarballs for: windows brm, jtrek, SWINE, glTrek, old server code, some bots, etc. We actually seem to be missing a fair bit of old code; I see nothing for original xtrek I client or server, unix brm, rick's moo, sgi iris gltrek, or macnetrek (the modem kludge thing); the whole 1988-1993 period seems sparse.

=History= 

Past situation from 2006-06 was that we used darcs repositories for ongoing server development, and commit to CVS only on release. 
Past situation from 2006-04 was that we began using darcs while continuing to use CVS on [http://wiki.us.netrek.org/netrek-dev/SourceForge SourceForge]. 
Past situation as of 2006-01 was that we used CVS repositories hosted by [http://wiki.us.netrek.org/netrek-dev/SourceForge SourceForge] on cvs.sourceforge.net, in project netrek, modules server and
Past situation as of 1998-11 was that we used CVS repositories hosted by Real-Time on cvs.us.netrek.org.  client//.

=www.netrek.org site=
The web site itself is a darcs repository.

=vanilla.netrek.org web site= 

The web site itself is a darcs repository. The hosting server does not have darcs installed, so to update the patches are applied to a personal repository which is then rsync'd to the hosting server. 

=continuum.us.netrek.org web site= 

The web site itself is a darcs repository, excluding the blog/ directory. 

=metaserver.us.netrek.org web site= 
The web site itself is a darcs repository.